hello everyone so till now in this
course we have been looking at
combinations of it all before how the
combination circuits are we will see
more all the related to movies now let's
look at under processes sequential
circuits or with a very integral part of
anybody today
so in this do in this lecture we will
see how how sequential elements are used
in sequence we will see two major types
of sequence elements latch and this lock
you see how they are designed using
chemo we look at the delay or within the
parameters of latch and tip of good now
latch insist on both have the concept of
naturally amended it we look into that
now wherever there are a sequence
element there is a clock the clock comes
into picture so we look at the clock the
clock skew Oh
reporter it is doing analysis of the
glue we need touch upon time borrowing
and we see a bit about to face all the
time borrowing the delay concepts I just
touched upon in restricted they will be
explained and mean in detail we need
four and five that is giving citizen is
an analysis but here we we lay down the
basis of pieces let us look at what is
sequencing why do we need it is that it
now the major distance between
combination is equal to logic is what or
a combination logic we all put trained
output depends only on the input state
at that moon so if we change the input
after some debate in a negative of the
CMOS the output will respect that thing
for example one handed both inputs are
one we offer this one if you change one
input to 0 the output will go to 0 after
some time is amount of the
a sequential logic on the other hand the
output depends not only on the previous
inputs but also not on on only on the
current input think also only what the
input was before
so this this dynasty sequential logic we
use to separate the previous content
which I mean these are the outputs of
sequential elements of oil sleep or
tokens they are there two very famous
example pair or one is open of a finite
state machine and there is a pipeline so
we go back there basic digital design
remember water efficient load then FSM
is a set of sequential circuits this is
anything a particular speaker
now when the ecig mentions at its
minimum once click over depending on
what input scale so a finite efficient
or circuit something like this we have a
type of lip pop bank registered and the
output of these registers depends on
inputs and also on water what all
outputs are going so it depends not only
on the input state with an input state
but also on what input was what was the
state of this bank of resistors was
previously
as compared to F Matheson there set it
like pipelining where the data we just
get through the Penn State is suited to
the state one some processing happens
moving this way the community state to
this state P and so on
now the question arises why do we need
frequent thing about
so let's say if the tokens or if the or
states of the permanent a perfect move
at constant speeds all the parts in your
design then there is no need of
sequencing because the sequencing is
inherently be taking table for example
in fiber optics beam light pulses which
are equivalent to token still send down
an optical cable
the design itself guarantees that the
next phase is same before the first
because at the end of the table it will
not happen with the input pulses will
not remove the cable out of order so
since this is the elta driving nature of
the design step there is no need of a
separate hardware to separate these
forces although will be physical
limitation or post by will be set up
like this motion is the minimum time
between pulses but otherwise no extra
hardware is the poem
we can say this is a equivalent of a
pipe an ineffective
in case of digital design this type of
internal capability is not there that is
I mean extra hardware to make sure that
the tokens transfer from input to output
right the order so what this means is
that with the lady fast open so that we
are going to add a flow this is the
sizable including employees that we
think or into our practical office and
there's a no course of a boot architect
of it feels really expensive into this
lead the pipelining inside it or CPU
design so that is what will help in
making and the disbeliever tky
sequencing is required anyway as we go
on and see examples of utilize them you
start appreciating this country
now obviously then we use the sequential
element like proper latch with the
latest pass cooking so that they move
with back knee one stable tighten it is
I someday someday lead of the show 1000
but they have to be also possible to the
Attic we have to be able to split open
now this compare like pick up there do
circuit 1 is only cut fully complies a
combination that is comprised of
combination for sequences so one of
their combinations are sequence element
binding will be a bit slower than the
earlier one
this site often where it is for
sequencing overhead so this will also
call this copy because then we all
sequencer able to design we also have to
add the core but it also applies to a
single entity group or the eigen come to
another example theta this will be
inevitable side effect of mentoring
people when you want to maintain
sequence you have to make sure that the
faster tokens do not cooperate with
local or call this is the essence of
speaking
now let's look at the two basic people
being large and at the top so latch is a
little sensitive device on the other
hand clifftop is an HP building the most
famous example of the light is ad latch
what the dilash means is that the data
we are going to whenever clock is active
Christof is usually made from two
latches which are mine in the master
slave configuration we call this a dick
soft top or at a resistor now going back
to basic digital design we have each 32
remember the study of the chiclet i4 @e
type or registered also but in today's
design world the D latch reduce the
power of the two most extensively easily
let's look at the timing diagrams of
latch lat collages American pipe which
is probably on the right-hand side of
the clock or can be the symbol F of the
clock has a triangle attached to the
clock rather the clock the next field
Italian this step we should
differentiate within a large enough
epoch so let's look at stock usually a
walk in a design is mostly a freerunning
clock that you know it has a certain
frequency and there is a hyper under the
iPod there is a local you know whenever
clock goes high we assume data to be
like this we have to be changing like
this what happens to sort of output of a
lab and what happens to all okay now the
last functionality is such that whenever
the clock is active that is we are
assuming that the clock is active within
the hi-fi page which is doing the pulse
now in this is a large transferring that
means whatever happens on D will appear
on a few of the something so we see here
that D is going to fall and then we're
going to be going to once again going to
0 so this is this is propagated to Q
so cube goes to one end to 0 after
sometime now when the clock goes to zero
the closing edge of the table that is
whenever a lot is going from high to low
this will close the last what it means
is that whatever data is Dylan Q will be
L so any change on D during this period
in the clock blue period does not appear
on cube
let's serve ice again during clock hype
i period given the clock - slashes
transparent so that we wait accommodate
two elegant over anything on d gets
transferred on people whenever this
clock goes to inactive state whatever is
the state of teeth in handy
on the other hand a clip-clop
whenever there is a clock whenever clock
goes from zero to one that is viewing a
positivity in a positive edge triggered
flip-flop whatever is on D passes on to
you
so now as big at this moment Venus de
loop so Q goes down to zero the dis
arrow the blue arrow shows the effect we
can bring logic entertaining at is
another plug goes to one whatever is d
is transparent with you so who goes to
zero out at some point and then nothing
happens on Q irrespective of whatever is
happening on team during D during the
high pass or the locum the next figure
will only come as a little bit applause
when again the D is 1 so 2 goes to one
efficiently
the difference is the largest level
sensitive device that will come with an
extra device
and so that are how these or to cable
circuits are built using theme of course
this is a very very basic latch nothing
but this box is connected to grid D is d
NQ are connected to so convincingly
listen to go back to the bigger
thickness is nothing but a pass for my
sister passion is to latch obviously it
is the smallest latch possible using in
multiple modes whether the advantages of
this meat is very very small and low
o'clock low we look at what what what it
is men's I know clock would just note
that the clock respite has only one loop
that is the gate of this one is great
these are advantages on many paths into
the past analytical it will have a big
drop it will be knowledge tooling
because oh the output is not driven by
we do it correctly or persons in fact of
anxiety equals back driving because
being an effective tool to the decision
the effect of this is that whatever
noise to use on Q can be lighter ability
it is dynamic they are looking to the
Dakotas dynamics of the dynamic manger
and the input is more connected to the
inputs is not connected to this other
specific reason this is one device now
let's look at in next few slides we look
at the different movements that are
download that having done over this
basic design so improvement number one
we replace a power transistor biocon
sufficiently
so what we solve we solve the case of
beauty drop it and now they're using
both in Oakland oh so there is movie
pizza now here note that the plot pipe
earlier is connected to just one gate in
bookmark with the food baited hooks go
the new road is impeding on walk and
further it required an inverted
next improvement we do is that we try to
we added one inverter from d2 to we can
add the inverter at the two sides or the
deep end or the transition week
advantages now the in the second case in
this case B is now connected to the gate
and not to the diffusion in this case
you to God is not connected to is now
take it to the we frame that is it is
being driven by BD together it is
restoring Q does not drive anything back
to gate the back to D so one of those
two these two designs fixes for example
a design number one which is the output
noise sensitivity since Q is direct
directly driven by VDD or ground the
second circuit solves the diffusion
input type obviously in both these cases
we have the output is not available that
is available movie or put isn't notice
right let's see one more improvement
over this what we do okay let's go back
to 3d circuit
you see these three topics now
these the ex will have some the node X
will have some capacitance with respect
to ground or wing PD depending on the
logic developments let's say the clock
is zero whenever the clock is build this
transmission gate is switched off that
means B is not connected with
so the voltage level on X will start
degrading over time let's say you keep
block off course um some big amount of
time the voltage value 1x will start
degrading across the capacitance with
the one with this is the case where we
say that the circuit is dynamic in
nature that is X the node X is dynamic
emitter it may show some deepening of
inaudible now in this circuit what we do
is we take this feedback compute
we take the feedback compute and feed it
back into X
when does this happen so they can be one
one case at a time when everything is
driving this does not exist
this feedback part does not exist
because the connection of transmission
gate is complementary so whenever clock
is one this this transmission gate is
active this is an active if you see the
clock is connected to the complement way
so deal t drive X in the other case
where be a 40-watt so this this grid is
off and this is optional the queue is
driving it so at all times X is being
driven so that means that we try to
restore the value on its own organs so
this circuit a static imager that means
it is not dynamic it is fat it the bank
driving it is negative it is die driving
this because you will you being a head
in the circuit is dying by X but still
it is and doing the working or getting
static laughter now attention we must
make sure that the voltage levels do not
fit if the voltage levels are degraded
is very very disadvantageous that any
small noise is a becomes an idea so next
improvement we buffer the input
muttering the input will obviously fix
the dictation input it is an it is
non-invertible
within one more tiny improvement is that
what we do is instead of compared to the
PDF instead of taking to come now Q is
feeding back into Excel
instead of taking Q output here the next
control mind we take Q from X
what does this do now is that experience
the case of back ready so Q is Q Excel
the output itself is not driving back
anything into the circle this is very
very desirable from the knowledge point
of view again so this is the most widely
used larger than this is very very
robust obviously since we added about
poor inverters with a basic function
great design with a very large it is a
slope F over here means with an output
it has height of the link now note here
that top here goes to this goes to spot
which opens so the loading is both go
here just we need a notice for put
considering all the disadvantages also
this circuit is now this is one example
of this loaded with less repetition
where we remove the inverter from T so
to put it in D this can be one if we
want we desire that between that if you
can input the not problem in smaller
designs or an older technology we could
remove the uniformity and make it a bit
small obviously in this case we do let's
look at this or again going back to
what is mono they fit into the 10 pin
top is big moving two latches connected
back to back together
it's clock being inverted to D be first
one this is called a mass displacement
position so this is an example of that
so in the power circuit in this circuit
what we do is we connect so this is a
this is my lash this D 2 X this is the Q
of first ash and this is a game
this part is effectiveness
they are both connected together the
thing to note here is that cloth this
clock here and
clock here they're both our inverter so
we burst the first latch gets a
complimentary clock when compared to the
second action now let's try to analyze
the functionality of this then we are
comfortable with the understanding of
the functionality of the first 30 second
circuit is not much different on the
contracted whatever consumption is
applied earlier that is how to make a
robust latch we have just converted we
do not adhere to the more robust shown
otherwise for 10 seconds as the path is
actually same now let's see whenever
torch is low what happens when poor
people or what happens when the clock is
they will lower stable home
so then clock this stable loop table 0
that means Oh
this our this particular transmission
gate oh so when when electric field
for hit let's see the first case from D
to X what happens from D to it so then
PI that is cloth is you this part
becomes active D - D - X is connected
but complementary xqq is not connected
so another clock is low there is no
direct connection from D to you this
isn't our district of functionality when
clock is 1 extra Q's connected or Cuba
is connected and D 2 s is open it
so whenever the clock is either active
low or active voice is able T there is
no direct path from B to C now what
happens when clock goes from 0 to 1
so then our club goes from zero to one
so then when it was zero
this was our active this particular part
was not tips will be was connected to it
so whatever is on D is on X now when it
goes to one
this latch closes and this latch starts
turning on so during the closure of this
latch whatever the value of was an ex
will retain until this latch is turned
on X stands for the 200 that is compared
with a timing diagram
whenever clock goes from zero to one
whatever is on d appears on T which is
what happens in this case so whenever it
goes to 1 whatever is on B was
transferred to X we top goes to 1 the
value of x is a then cop goes to 1 this
part turns on and exocomp of the key
exactly same thing happens in the second
circuit the only difference being we
added a couple of feedbacks here to
restore the value we took the two bar
form from the intermediate stage we took
two here we made sure that there is no
queue or two bar does not write anything
back into this process so the second
circuit is a more robust more practical
focus but to understand the
functionality the first activity now
there's one more how now we we saw a
basic lack basic before what we do is we
start adding displaying pin shook the
table and see what happens so another
more most famous Finnish clock enable on
a date an angle P so what enable means
is that whenever a label is 0 we ignore
the clock let me know what ignoring the
clock means we know what is will be
there two ways of implementing enable
you know in a larger up to stop VI the
MUX
so this is the month when enable is zero
we latch or v clock the to inversion
whenever enable in zero this drop input
will get whatever is on Q so Q will
maintain x value whenever enable is 1 if
there is at a normal system that is
stable we will type you wanna pop
trigger anything will last this last the
second implementation is adding the
gating the enable good flow so when we
give been able to the cloth and enable
is video this is an angle and it will be
the clock is always be going to latch at
a flip up to do nothing happens to the
path from D to build off whenever clock
is 1 it behaves like a normal action of
this pot it one advantages of a MUX
design or let's say disadvantage for
much will so this MUX is having filling
in the data
so it it so in case of a large physical
at the d2q delays increased however for
a chocolate in case of the D to Cuba
remains same but for a flip-flop eight
so the set-up time will increase
quad-core enable enable will be one open
we will see what our setup voltage and
weight of the platform lattice but just
remember for now that the addition of an
a between on clock will increase the set
of thing and it will imitate the clock
skew because we are adding one more gate
at the clock however the second
implementation that is the job getting
we will see not mood of this explore
gating is the most famous way to save
power you'll see how now we I am some
coil head for a latch detect means that
we want to reset the value on the output
value we want to reset all these blocks
and all the notches in the Devon and
what do we do so let me type something
set reset synchronous or asynchronous
means that our inside will behave
exactly like the sense that each I can
only affect the output
whenever clock gets triggered in case of
this system however an async mass will
behave as an implicit whenever we assert
reset DQ will go to 0 if this filter of
the state of the clock so
let's see how do we implement a reset
for a large and epic clock so
synchronous case is very very simple
since reset behaves exactly like we we
just gave dv3 tip so whenever instant
becomes 1 this node here becomes 0 and Q
becomes 0 whenever that is transferred
so we see that similarly for the top we
just add reset we get it pretty that's
it
so whenever the clock trigger happens
this node will get transferred on the
queue and the keywords become 0 Q Bar
will become off
for a sequel this case is a bit
complicated more complex to a spiral
implementation boost so we'll have to
reset D and we will also have to reset
the intermediate move why because we
want to make sure that this still goes
to 0 in respective of the state of the
term and whenever the clock the large is
transparent this also this node also
should not affect me so we add retied
year ago when what happens and you get
both perform research goes to lunch this
node becomes 0 and this node becomes 0
so cube becomes 0 even then the effect
of reset codes and the clock is 1 we
need D to become one to make you one if
let's say this node was not reset then
what would have happened is that
whenever clock comes to this
intermediate value it can get
transferred to Q so to prevent this we
make this node
so to make to make sure that reset the
work properly asynchronously you have to
make sure that this node here and this
node here these two nodes have to be
reset so we are we get these two points
with the result same thing happens in a
block clock cop is nothing but master
tape integration so exactly the moment
there is a one more signal a very famous
in a pulpit so now we want to make sure
that queue is one should have view
exactly same concept as reset only the
gating maintained so this design is
implements both be patented you flip it
up I would urge all of you to go to
slice implement this and see the
functionality for yourself because this
is an asynchronous case so you have to
verify the functionality that whenever
set or reset one of the set or e-theta
deserted you goes to the correct value
irrespective of the state of the clock
please note that it is invalid for both
set and reset to be a circuit together
it is not a valid case since you would
want the only one to happen and you can
also verify what happens in this what
happens for two
okay so now we saw the designer block we
saw the design of the latch of this
happen now let us look at the sequencing
method that is how are these an image
connected together to make sure that
sequencing is correct
Plus what happens to the clock now there
are three methods first is flip-flops
take in clips using to fill that is
where it is you think pilot's license
now design also design wise that is a
simpler in the sense of construction
wise they are smaller but when this when
we want to use certain amount in nine
days I'm the sloths are much more
simpler to handle the timing
relationships are much more clear the
clock network is much more simpler and
pipe adapted that is why the first
method that is using the clocks will be
using this this type of design is the
most popular way or sequencing two and
three from this force course point of
view either the cationic lipid in naked
D will never use compares artists or
pulsated in our design in the school
maybe maybe some of the design people
maybe thumb product companies use this
kind of design very very specific cases
but otherwise almost almost 100% of
Industry you will be possible so I'll
focus a lot on birth weight compared to
method to NP now let's look at a few
things here let's look at the timing
diagrams what all timing is insulted
then we'll go into the sequencing so
combination logic as only has two types
of delays one is the maxilla other is
the middle attracted
how much time so the time it takes from
input to these the output this is delay
value can be of two types one is the
propagation delay as a result and
domination when we go back we have to go
back to vectors and see what has
contamination today all this quickly
tell the termination today is the gates
where
the delay of the combinational circuits
is less compared to the usual pips this
is the case where the chatter to input
NAND gate both a and B are transitioning
so the the effect is that the output it
gets p-value much more sooner than the
case where only one of the less formal
of course for this for this course what
I would request is that
this assumes it allows the logic
propagation delay to be a type of a
maximum that means it is the maximum
delay this combination as it can help
considerably ski be the contamination
relativism to be the minimum delay that
is it is a minimum delay this
combination logical home apart from the
so-called a still shot is the flip flop
film the trigger point is the cloth so
that the propagation delay of the
flip-flop is calculated from whenever
the clock rises whenever the queue gets
affected so for the flip clock the delay
reference point is always a clock so
this
you have a flop propagation delay talk
to you when you have so this is max
delay again and you have crossed
equipment a Malaysian generated
bilingual for latch apart from the clock
affecting to the data also affects you
whenever that is transparent so you have
four types of delays to our same as
flops that is clock the blue propagation
is occupant and anything apart from
there they are two extra days which are
due to Q propagation and d2 to
contamination we see
so but the AUSA lodges have few
extraordinary values these are not
exactly laser restriction so a flop
let's say a cloth is guaranteed to work
only if data does not change in a window
around this log so let's say the clock
transitions here so there is a window on
both sides
during which detects emerging Oh Polly
then it is guaranteed that you will get
a degree so this window is called as a
double window
data should be stable at least some time
before the package this minimum time
constraint is called set a time that is
data should be set up before the clock
period before the clock breakage come
and this restrictive time is called at a
time similarly they should be held for
some time after the clock and his pals
this is session is called the whole time
so for a pace of a block the whole time
and set of time are calculated from the
the the trigger edge that is the clock
edge that triggers viewing for large it
is always a closing you that means the
edge that closes is that latches d2q the
D has to meet a setup and a hold window
from that edge so a combinational logic
does not have such a template
combination logic is purely a technical
tip whatever happens on input appears
sometimes a fun time offset on the album
for a sequential element however the
input should be stable before they
trigger it for a clip-clop it's always d
for a positive edge triggered fill top
it is always a clock positive edge
for a label sensitive latch that means
which is transparent and high edge it is
always a negative now let's see how do
we use these these figures these these
delay numbers these deliverables to
estimate the frequency of a design or in
other words to see what is what will be
the sequencing over
now let's look at the slip off this the
maxilla now this type of diagram and
these equations you'll encounter a lot
of times in the next next units because
this is the basis of calculating the
frequency by design
now let's say there were there was no
sequence irrelevant here so this
combination logic is the only thing
present here to the delay we say that
the delay of this combination was it
let's call it let's call it call it PPD
so without any so this without any
sequential elements present the delay
would have been TBD right now we are we
are added one stop here man puppet
we added some sequential elements now
what happens
so whenever let's say we frequency that
the time period of box TV weekly the
time between the first I will be
cognizable now everything should happen
within this period everything should
happen within this Vedic
so now now let's say whenever the clocks
where this comes it takes some time that
is the since we are talking about
maxilla you will take all the math
delays in the previous small the match
delays are always the propagation delay
the mingle in the end contamination is
so calm and collected we wish for the
maximum delay this block will have is P
P P Q so after let's say clock arrives
on zero time t1 changes at TPC pd-2
changes to add P P D plus TP c2 and
since this this change here at d2 should
be at least the whole set of Pioneer
so what I would say is that the total
delay of this circuit is EP c q+ TPD
let's t setup and this total delay
should obviously be d less than their
the time period of the clock this
condition will make sure that your
circuit work now let's see what the
equation is so take take T set the plus
T PC to be decidin and confirm that
whatever we went as fit is inside this
equation with T set up plus TP C cube
with epd all these three combined
together should be less than people now
TPD was the original combination or the
villain should we say that we realize
the equation and take P set up and T PC
to to this time now we see that the T
feeding will added these two the three
set up and T PC tube are only there
because we are in sequential elements
therefore F is purple so they say that
we are adding a sequencing over Parador
T set up this TB see this equation is
very very important we will revisit this
many many times we'll revisit this when
we start synthesis in static timing
analysis so please take some time in
understanding this or even if it is not
clear here I am sure that it will be
clear in unit puddin pie now let's look
at what happens when during through page
that is I'll not spend too much time
here on this last case intuitive model
this is the critical case so what you
could do is you could go back and write
the equations on paper and then the time
house books so the two phases are is
that is the contact is something like
this the clock of large one and large -
so you have large one and lastly a
connected by simple latch to two
is does not overlap the light one
o'clock so they are too perfect if you
have pi-1 and pi2 now what happens now
let's say i1 goes after so l1 becomes
transparent the data at q1 changes after
PDQ this PDQ data is d 2 to n disaster
TPD one now large to again latch 2
becomes active here so this TPD - again
/ - - and again you have CCPD - of this
combination legacy so data after DB they
died d3 changes after equally one less
PPD t 1 plus t pd 1 plus t p DQ 2 plus
TP degree without the latches the delay
would have been PPD 1 plus t VD 2 so
whatever we add here but so what is
extra here nothing but the propagation
delay of natural large group in fact
this is the sequencing overhead with
this group we add two times do delay up
or latch
now please note here that there is no
set of times incentive why because the
set-up time for the latch is calculated
from the closing is there this closing
edge is not important at all by again
because we made five and pipe is no no
we are make sure that the data d2
changes before pi/2 opens
so we are not changing data on the only
clothing it so there is no point of
there is no conceptus at that point you
in this in that case right so let's go
to again this type of design is very
very they're using on the notches this
graphs are multiplied since sequencing
is much more in control there as you see
that we use two blocks here and in a big
design that say how design has a hundred
thousand sequential element one hundred
thousand and sequential element each of
that says either by a single clock this
is a very very common place where a
single clogged pipes on thousands of
clocks in its time
so there is a lot of clock overhead now
compared this to let a flip-flop will
have the power based design you'll just
have one cup so one clock goes till it's
in multiple housing forms if you replace
that by latches and this scheme will
have to make we have to have two clocks
so adding one more cloth adds again
multiple thousand over it right yes you
have to make sure too that PI 2 and PI 1
oh no no non overlapping and that is not
very easy being able to go into like
cloth goes to so many buffers there is
all of you so it is not easy to make
sure that Phi 2 and 5 and all always non
overlapping this is why this this scheme
is not very very popular I put a big
label now this is the third case which
is a pump that is so then just note that
we are looking at the Magdala capable so
all we are looking at is the propagation
delays and not the contamination let's
look at well that is again we have two
pulses here so there will be a pulse
here and there will be a pulse here so
there are two cases the pulse rate is
greater than the set of time or pulse is
less than the set-up time
now here the closing edge becomes
important because this clothing is
becomes important because it's not it's
just a pulse so now let's say the pulse
width is more than a set of time so you
will have D 2 2 we have T PDQ it is rock
with you so you get a 2 Q plus you have
the CPD and this should be this should
be before happen before the EP and the
next edge is the next pulse happens so
combine these two cases if we say that B
we can times the sequencing overhead is
maxed of these PD or TT sequel that is
either contamination of the propagation
delay plus T set up the set a time of
this comes into picture the closing is
constant the picture is and - the pulse
width of 1 because here the pulse width
is this pulse width whispers which is
actually eating into the siphon angle so
everything should happen
for that I don't worry too much about
the pulse status page that will be
rarely use it will you'll never see this
name obtained before now let's let's
look at or the min delay that is what
happens
so when after also off clock has an
accidental vindaloo these are the
maxilla it is we stop let's go back to
the Immaculate Delano let's spend some
time here
so let's look at this equation here this
equation
or what what this does is equation
valuing it places a maximum timing
campaign on this oil design this so what
it say is here is that
the combination the addition of the
propagation delay of the block plus the
combination of it there is a set of time
at a time is kind of able to delay in
this case this can not be greater than
the period or the frequency of the block
what it means is that that the Yerba
combination logic
and plus you have some delay of the
clock what this does is it replaces the
design it tells us that there is a
natural sequence e at which I design
benefit
you cannot decrease TC without any
limits the maximum limit of TC the
maximum frequency at which you can
operate or design is 1 / T P D + P set
up plus T 2 T so we call this as a match
silicate then it applies a maximum
constraint on your frequency now keeping
that in mind that look at the middle
now the minimal delay of a block now in
this case we take TC 2 so the Q 1
changes after T C 2 D 2 changes after
the minimum delay of combination of
kinetic which is the TCD in this case
now a CD plus TC q should be such that
they do so this cloth is actually the
figure of people typical F to the delay
change at d2 should have famous as I it
means the whole time requirement of this
form so you have
so what it means is that they say cube
the facility should be better than the
evil data should be held kept held after
T hold when does it a day since they
doesn't exactly see decontamination
denier the flop less GCD of the
combination on it so theta D plus T city
pool could be greater than two holes
which is a quick hint we arrays an equal
equation
and come up with this so TC did the
species DQ is greater than P who is
greater than or equal to these people we
rearrange the equation and get this
again the sequencing overhead is nothing
but this TC - it is actually not a
sequencing overhead but what it does it
places a min timing requirement only
only totally so what is the total delay
here the total delay is TC d + T to
people and it should as every time all
other times it should be greater than
the T whole so now we see that the total
delayed that is the delay is actually
nothing but the combination delay
position constantly should be at all
times greater than the table or and less
than the time period of the clock a
destroyed by the set of thing so in fact
now the delay of the circuit is limited
by two gate which is one is the max
whether there is the mill you also know
that there is no the clock frequency
does not come into picked in here we go
into depth in in in unit five on this
equation this equation is very very
important again a mass at a time
occlusion
similarly we have the amended a case for
two-phase watches and we have the Middle
Ages for the pulp so there is an
indelicate of people that is again it's
very slow to the earlier case where we
say that the V delay here PT d 1 t CD
with the CDP and plus TC c q+ be non
over plus should be greater than the t1
requirement the paradox here is that the
volt time is reduced by the non overlap
the whole time applies to IC cycle but
only once for flops but again inside
this block is made up of two lightest
you can verify this no need to go deep
into the salad of it might be bit
confusing but we be clear that the one
thing is clear that the equation of
clocks are similar the template compared
to that it's the crossing me modulations
left you have known this disadvantage we
don't have to worry about overlapping
Natomas cross so that is why of clips
off base design
this is a case of pulse gadgets of a lot
void in code peep into it or there is no
no need for it now
now let's touch upon it and search by
time bottom now in a cloud-based system
the data a imagine imagine a design like
this
let's go back to face
so a design like this they play
knowledge on to the rising finish from
the power one
engage staff third d2 gets captured at
an f2 on this edge
this place is constrained here that
everything that has to happen has to
happen between these waited
so so data bounces on one rising edge
must set up that is it should become
stable the poor set of time before the
next rising it is this the data arise
dead system field of the sleep you need
is to capture the new meta but it is
rail you could not capture it if it
arrives early that means if it arrives
feel it earlier then the whole time
requirement of the next stop then again
the system pain
of call second case with a knife
somewhere in the menu button it means
owns the whole time with Hammond and the
second time requirement so that that
time you have that in any time you are
it's actually registered it in the sense
that what it again tells us that these
past tokens you you slowed them but then
you had some margin available that
margin assistance so what is the what it
compares it we compared the clock based
system of the knife that system in Delta
dash is a data arise early but it still
beats hold on retirement time invasive
plots have harder this vendme
importantly you will notice and they are
they design that since the clock works
on it is nothing happens between the
edges in the block so God has high
degrees now compared to this in a large
plate system a data can pass through
Latin transform
what it is is that by May with the clock
overlapping or non-overlapping of the
clocks we can actually make sure that
time is what we will the fish soil time
bottle but if we take the time from a
past present and give the time that much
lower subject
only if the only condition is that each
loop should complete in one cycle let's
look at one example this is again I will
this is now common design feature where
so what happens is that your Phi 1 and
Phi 2 again engage now in this case Phi
1 and Phi 2 are complement working with
it so there is actually only one plus
Phi 1 and this complementary and it is
inverted and given to that in the middle
so this the slash launch data there will
be this powerful combination video and
then we could borrow time from this
circuit to this sir this time
why because let's say this is a slow
circuit this part is the source of it so
it takes a lot of time and it if the
data becomes stable somewhere here and
there here but now the light is
transparent so there is no inter does
not smoke near data directly goes to
this third lash and
and let's play this when it wants to
capture this today - it should remain
stable should come let us somewhere
around here even if it is circuit this
part of circuit is slow and it is called
a circuit ISM is passed we make sure
that the data the time is not wasted and
in that was spoken to utilize the only
requirement the only constraint here is
that the only constraint is that the
combined array of combinational logic 1
and combination of the two should I fall
cause the less than this this time
people this time period will again look
more integrated we look at a case where
actually this is a clock this is the
clock and this particle all this very
famous time or anything remember this
the more detail in uniform
this is a game one more example of
fabric minute we can do so see this this
length is more help or affirmation Alec
so this means it's a flavor bit is the
past body again this is B cases came at
spacing
now only in all the previous examples we
were reviewing that clock skew see what
it means is that the clock arrives on
this clock when I need to talk to at the
same time but this is not exactly true
the clocks will block school to
thousands of knots in the design not all
the stocks will get the clock at the
same time
there will be some uncertainty in the
arrival time what it does run certainly
touch to design is that it decreases the
maximum population to make it increases
the venue's contamination billet it
decreases sine bothering so it X
negatively in all the cases
let's see one clip or pop the dogs so
what so now there's a you see this this
figure here and now the clock arrival at
each of the clip drops is actually
entertaining some limiting it is
uncertain in this limit so what it does
is what it reduces the amount of margin
you have so what it does is that with I
to the propagation delay so we saw that
so reading the CPC capacity hitter now
we act a skew with this still these
queue adds to the sequencing overhead
similarly this queue however it's shown
positive here but this you can also be
negative that means it can also affect
the whole time negatively so so what
happens let's say if the blockage
arrived early here it is not good
positive case if the if the clock edge
arrives later here it is not good for
the whole we have anything more detail
for n-type
let this a few things for lattice you
can go to the equation again since it's
not a very popular demand you can even
pick pick
so let's look at what happens it's at a
time and one is in such a time involved
it means we saw that the sector time
poses a maximum performance they can
only depend so checkout time is violated
on a manner actually you can actually
reduce the frequency and when you pet
with the footage looking back at the
whole time knowledge you can do nothing
just will fail at any frequency this
whole time requirement is not the whole
time constrain the militant or depending
on sub sequences so in fact this is the
result will be teaching we will even buy
it
people are designers are more alert more
very of the whole time with this in
context a set of changes so you have to
make sure that hold minutes apologies
what all cases we need such all the
voltage will be voltage base for the
typical specified it means at all the
corners of the temperature range it
means in the slow process as well as
past purpose will be strong it available
so this kind of this mess that camera is
what we saw what we learned in the
liquid we saw the design for the to
visit people beginning will at event at
the pub will drop a very very easy to
use they are supported by all dooms
these all the three sequin things mean
to stop the clocks
who pays transfer matches and perfect
matches who this transfer attaches have
a problem of students you have to have
known overlapping box and my model file
status are I in my experience I have a
new perspective over this vulgar
completely different launching so I form
this place altogether this table gives
the sequence in overhead I'd be
sequencing overhead of the match today
the minimum volume today and the time
but I see so you see for the Smith knobs
there is no such concept that time
bottom-feeder
there are some time boiling equations
for two phase constant that is my static
you conscripted so that is all for this
vector thank you